This project started as a method to extract models from the game Dawn Of War. And began with some google-fu to build a basis for how files are layed out. Using the forums over at Xentax; I got a gist of the Archive folder's layout and the specialized file layout.

While this allowed me to read the files; most of the important files were still 'blobby' data dumps. 

I began with Audio-Files, researching on forums and the modding scene for information on AIFF-C. As it turned out; the files were compressed using a special codec developed by relic, requiring the use of  two ancient programs to convert back to a wav format.

Next came models; a fine piece of advice I found on forums was looking for the exponent/mantissa of floats; typically XF or FX depending on byte orders. This helps identify the 'position' part of a vertex list. From there, I extrapolated common things I expected to find in a mesh; Uvs & Normals.

While not perfect, since the mesh still had unknown fields packed in, and I didn't understand how to parse a skeleton chunk, it was capable of dumping the majority of the object without ripping it from the gpu (which is what is required by ninjaripper).

After meshes, I moved onto textures. From memory, I believe most all DOW I textures (packed into texture archives) were dds files marked as tga files. And required rebuilding a proper DDS file header. Later, I ran into a separate texture set that was grayscale/color TGAs which required rebuilding the TGA header.

From there I looked into other assets to convert, but decided against it. Since these files were exclusive to the game, and didn't have a good reason to need to extract them.

Later, I learned that this format was still being used by Relic; all the way to their game DOW III. So I tried to continue to extract assets for DOW II and DOW III. Primarily; models. DOW II uses FMOD audio, which I felt would be too much of an undertaking to handle when I'm sure a tool already exists, and DOW III (I think) already unpacked audio lines normally?

The end result is a tool which can unpack .SGA archives, RelicChunky files (as generic binary folder/data files), Models (.WHM, .Model), Textures (.RTX, .WTP, .RTG) and Audio (.FDA / .AIFF-C)